The development and innovation of new products of enameled wire has shifted from researching new products with higher heat resistance to the direction of product structure and coating structure innovation, in order to improve the performance level of enameled wire, develop new functions and improve processing characteristics. The scope of product application, so as to adapt to the needs and changes of the market more quickly.

The innovation of new varieties of enameled wires in the future will focus on four themes of "environmental protection, energy saving, frequency conversion, and high efficiency". Special-shaped enameled wire, self-adhesive, Ritz wire, fluorine-resistant enameled wire, anti-corona enameled wire, aluminum core enameled wire, etc. are all the directions for the development and research of new products in the future. Among them, the anti-corona enameled wire used for variable frequency motors and frequency converters has the most development prospects, and it is a new growth point of the enameled wire market in the future.

1. Anti-corona composite enameled wire is the main trend of new product development and the main new growth point of the future market

     According to the country's industrial policy of developing products with "low consumption and high efficiency" in the future, variable frequency motors are the key products developed by the country in the future. Anti-corona enameled wires are used in variable frequency motors, which can improve the insulation performance under variable frequency conditions and meet the requirements of anti-corona. , Anti-high frequency pulse current requirements, especially with high partial discharge voltage (corona resistance) performance. Compared with ordinary enameled wires, the pulse resistance life of insulation in the same thick enamel layer is increased by more than 100 times.

The frequency conversion motor is the key development direction of the motor industry. Because it is 30-40% more energy efficient than the general motor, it is a new product that will be promoted and popularized before 2020. After 10 years, the output of variable frequency motors will account for more than 50-70% of all motors, which is a major innovation for the enameled wire industry. According to the forecast, the application of enameled wire in the motor industry will reach 190,000 tons in 2010, 250,000 tons in 2015, and 300,000 tons in 2020. According to the 50-70% frequency conversion motor, the demand for anti-corona enameled wire is 100,000 tons and 150,000 tons respectively. Tons, 200,000 tons, any variety of enameled wire can not reach this development speed. However, the current variable frequency motor is still under development and has not been widely used in industrialization. At present, the national demand for anti-corona enameled wire is less than 10,000 tons, and the domestic supply is less than 5,000 tons, and most of them still rely on imports. It can be seen that the anti-corona enameled wire has a large space for future development and is a new variety with the most development potential. my country's market is huge, and we must catch up and develop vigorously.

 

2. Technical development direction and market trend of medium, small size and micro enameled wire

    According to the analysis of relevant professionals and industry survey data, the current demand for enameled wire in my country is about 600,000 tons, and it is expected to reach 1.1 million tons by the end of the "Eleventh Five-Year Plan", of which medium and small enameled wires account for about 45%. The main application areas are small household appliances, automotive motors, power tools, communications, electronic information and micro-motors and other industries. With the increase of product categories in these industries and the continuous upgrading of products, many electronic component products have put forward higher requirements for the variety and quality of enameled wires used. In addition to further improvement in the four major performance indicators of general enameled wires, many special properties have been added to meet specific functional requirements, or to improve the applicability of enameled wires during use, and reduce enameled wire production or use costs. Such as: diameter reduction, light weight, high self-adhesion, tension characteristics, consistency of winding parameters, high frequency and high pressure resistance, high Q value characteristics, thermal fuse, heat resistance, refrigerant resistance, direct welding, Shaped, non-magnetic, high conductivity, etc. The development of enameled wire technology also puts forward higher requirements for the management of enameled wire production process, such as production technology, production equipment, personnel quality, production environment, testing methods and material application.

  Small and medium-sized enameled wire will become the mainstream market in the future. According to preliminary statistical analysis, the total domestic market demand for small and medium-sized enameled wire is about 300,000 tons per year, accounting for 45% of the total demand. The future demand will continue to grow and will become the future In the mainstream market, the number of industry demands is roughly divided as shown in Table 3.
     The small and medium-sized enameled wire market has a large market capacity and a wide market distribution, covering almost all special varieties and electrical and electronic control systems in all industries. At present, most companies are focusing on the special enameled wire market, the contradiction between supply and demand is very prominent, and the market competition is intensifying. However, in some varieties and specifications, domestic products still cannot meet the requirements for use. In the fierce market competition, how to seize the opportunity, correct positioning, grasp the market, and obtain benefits is the direction we face and choose.
